

ABOUT_PSCUSTOMOBJECT


Short description

Explains the differences between the [psobject] and [pscustomobject] type
accelerators.


Long description

The [pscustomobject] type accelerator was added in PowerShell 4.0.

Prior to adding this type accelerator, creating an object with member
properties and values was more complicated. Originally, you had to use
New-Object to create the object and Add-Member to add properties. For
example:

    PS> $object1 = New-Object -TypeName PSObject
    PS> Add-Member -InputObject $object1 -MemberType NoteProperty -Name one -Value 1
    PS> Add-Member -InputObject $object1 -MemberType NoteProperty -Name two -Value 2
    PS> $object1 | Get-Member

       TypeName: System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject

    Name        MemberType   Definition
    ----        ----------   ----------
    Equals      Method       bool Equals(System.Object obj)
    GetHashCode Method       int GetHashCode()
    GetType     Method       type GetType()
    ToString    Method       string ToString()
    one         NoteProperty int one=1
    two         NoteProperty int two=2

    PS> $object1

    one two
    --- ---
      1   2

Later, you could use the PROPERTY parameter of New-Object to pass a
HASHTABLE containing the members and values. For example:

    PS> $object2 = New-Object -TypeName PSObject -Property @{one=1; two=2}
    PS> $object2 | Get-Member

       TypeName: System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject

    Name        MemberType   Definition
    ----        ----------   ----------
    Equals      Method       bool Equals(System.Object obj)
    GetHashCode Method       int GetHashCode()
    GetType     Method       type GetType()
    ToString    Method       string ToString()
    one         NoteProperty int one=1
    two         NoteProperty int two=2

    PS> $object2

    one two
    --- ---
      1   2

Since PowerShell 4.0, casting a HASHTABLE to [pscustomobject] achieves the
same result.

    PS> $object3 = [pscustomobject]@{one=1; two=2}
    PS> $object3 | Get-Member

       TypeName: System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject

    Name        MemberType   Definition
    ----        ----------   ----------
    Equals      Method       bool Equals(System.Object obj)
    GetHashCode Method       int GetHashCode()
    GetType     Method       type GetType()
    ToString    Method       string ToString()
    one         NoteProperty int one=1
    two         NoteProperty int two=2

    PS> $object3

    one two
    --- ---
      1   2

PSOBJECT type objects maintain the list of members in the order that the
members were added to the object. HASHTABLE objects don't guarantee the
order of the key-value pairs. Therefore, if you want properties of the
PSOBJECT to appear in a specific order you must add them using Add-Member
or use and ordered hashtable. For example:

    $Asset = [pscustomobject]([ordered]@{
        Name      = "Server30"
        System    = "Server Core"
        PSVersion = "4.0"
    })


Understanding the type accelerators

[psobject] and [pscustomobject] are type accelerators.

For more information, see about_Type_Accelerators.

Even though you might think that [pscustomobject] should map to
SYSTEM.MANAGEMENT.AUTOMATION.PSCUSTOMOBJECT, the types are different.

    PS> [pscustomobject] -eq [System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject]
    False

Both type accelerators are mapped to the same class, PSOBJECT:

    PS> [pscustomobject]

    IsPublic IsSerial Name                                     BaseType
    -------- -------- ----                                     --------
    True     True     PSObject                                 System.Object

    PS> [psobject]

    IsPublic IsSerial Name                                     BaseType
    -------- -------- ----                                     --------
    True     True     PSObject                                 System.Object

When the [pscustomobject] type accelerator was added to PowerShell, it
included extra code to handle conversion of a HASHTABLE to a PSOBJECT type.
This extra code is only invoked when a new object is being created.
Therefore, you can't use [pscustomobject] for type coercion or type
comparison, because all objects are treated as PSOBJECT types.

For example, using the -is operator to check that an object returned by a
cmdlet is a [pscustomobject] is the same as comparing it to [psobject].

    PS> (Get-Item /) -is [pscustomobject]
    True

    PS> (Get-Item /) -is [psobject]
    True

When you cast any object to [psobject] you get the type of the original
object. Therefore, casting anything other than a HASHTABLE to
[pscustomobject] results in the same type.

    PS> ([psobject]@{Property = 'Value'}).GetType().FullName
    System.Collections.Hashtable

    PS> ([pscustomobject]123).GetType().Name
    Int32

    PS> ([pscustomobject]@{Property = 'Value'}).GetType().FullName
    System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject


See also

-   about_Object_Creation
-   about_Objects
-   System.Management.Automation.PSObject
-   System.Management.Automation.PSCustomObject
